README.md, before:

# {ggplot} from [Yhat](http://yhathq.com)
read more on our [blog](http://blog.yhathq.com/posts/ggplot-for-python.html)
```
from ggplot import *

ggplot(aes(x='date', y='beef'), data=meat) + \
    geom_point(color='lightblue') + \
    geom_line(alpha=0.25) + \
    stat_smooth(span=.05, color='black') + \
    ggtitle("Beef: It's What's for Dinner") + \
    xlab("Date") + \
    ylab("Head of Cattle Slaughtered")
```
<img src="public/img/ggplot_demo_beef.png" style="max-height: 300px">

### What is it?
Yes, it's another port of [`ggplot2`](https://github.com/hadley/ggplot2). One of the biggest reasons why I continue to reach for `R` instead of `Python` for data analysis is the lack of an easy to use, high level plotting package like `ggplot2`. I've tried other libraries like [`bokeh`](https://github.com/continuumio/bokeh) and [`d3py`](https://github.com/mikedewar/d3py) but what I really want is `ggplot2`.

`ggplot` is just that. It's an extremely un-pythonic package for doing exactly what `ggplot2` does. The goal of the package is to mimic the `ggplot2` API. This makes it super easy for people coming over from `R` to use, and prevents you from having to re-learn how to plot stuff.

### Goals
- same API as `ggplot2` for `R`
- never use matplotlib again
- ability to use both American and British English spellings of aesthetics
- tight integration with [`pandas`](https://github.com/pydata/pandas)
- pip installable

### Getting Started
#### Dependencies
I realize that these are not fun to install. My best luck has always been using `brew` if you're on a Mac
or just using [the binaries](http://www.lfd.uci.edu/~gohlke/pythonlibs/) if you're on Windows. If you're using Linux then this should be relatively
painless. You should be able to `apt-get` or `yum` all of these.
- `matplotlib`
- `pandas`
- `numpy`
- `scipy`
- `statsmodels`
- `patsy`

#### Installation
Ok the hard part is over. Installing `ggplot` is really easy. Just use `pip`! An item on the TODO
is to add the matplotlibrc files to the pip installable (let me know if you'd like to help!).

    # matplotlibrc from Huy Nguyen (http://www.huyng.com/posts/sane-color-scheme-for-matplotlib/)
    $ curl https://github.com/yhat/ggplot/raw/master/matplotlibrc.zip > matplotlibrc.zip 
    $ unzip matplotlibrc.zip -d ~/
    # install ggplot using pip
    $ pip install ggplot

#### Loading `ggplot`

    # run an IPython shell (or don't)
    $ ipython
    In [1]: from ggplot import *
That's it! You're ready to go!

### Examples
```
meat_lng = pd.melt(meat[['date', 'beef', 'pork', 'broilers']], id_vars='date')
ggplot(aes(x='date', y='value', colour='variable'), data=meat_lng) + \
    geom_point() + \
    stat_smooth(color='red')
```
<img src="public/img/ggplot_meat.png">

####`geom_point`
```
from ggplot import *
ggplot(diamonds, aes('carat', 'price')) + \
    geom_point(alpha=1/20.) + \
    ylim(0, 20000)
```
<img src="public/img/diamonds_geom_point_alpha.png">

####`geom_hist`
```
p = ggplot(aes(x='carat'), data=diamonds)
p + geom_hist() + ggtitle("Histogram of Diamond Carats") + labs("Carats", "Freq") 
```
<img src="public/img/diamonds_carat_hist.png">

####`geom_density`
```
ggplot(diamonds, aes(x='price', color='cut')) + \
    geom_density()
```
<img src="public/img/geom_density_example.png">

```
meat_lng = pd.melt(meat[['date', 'beef', 'broilers', 'pork']], id_vars=['date'])
p = ggplot(aes(x='value', colour='variable', fill=True, alpha=0.3), data=meat_lng)
p + geom_density()
```
<img src="public/img/density_with_fill.png">

####`geom_bar`
```
p = ggplot(mtcars, aes('factor(cyl)'))
p + geom_bar()
```
<img src="public/img/mtcars_geom_bar_cyl.png">


### TODO
The list is long, but distinguished.[TODO](https://github.com/yhat/ggplot/blob/master/TODO.md)

Commit message:

Fix the broken link to matplotlibrc files.

README.md, after:

# {ggplot} from [Yhat](http://yhathq.com)
read more on our [blog](http://blog.yhathq.com/posts/ggplot-for-python.html)
```
from ggplot import *

ggplot(aes(x='date', y='beef'), data=meat) + \
    geom_point(color='lightblue') + \
    geom_line(alpha=0.25) + \
    stat_smooth(span=.05, color='black') + \
    ggtitle("Beef: It's What's for Dinner") + \
    xlab("Date") + \
    ylab("Head of Cattle Slaughtered")
```
<img src="public/img/ggplot_demo_beef.png" style="max-height: 300px">

### What is it?
Yes, it's another port of [`ggplot2`](https://github.com/hadley/ggplot2). One of the biggest reasons why I continue to reach for `R` instead of `Python` for data analysis is the lack of an easy to use, high level plotting package like `ggplot2`. I've tried other libraries like [`bokeh`](https://github.com/continuumio/bokeh) and [`d3py`](https://github.com/mikedewar/d3py) but what I really want is `ggplot2`.

`ggplot` is just that. It's an extremely un-pythonic package for doing exactly what `ggplot2` does. The goal of the package is to mimic the `ggplot2` API. This makes it super easy for people coming over from `R` to use, and prevents you from having to re-learn how to plot stuff.

### Goals
- same API as `ggplot2` for `R`
- never use matplotlib again
- ability to use both American and British English spellings of aesthetics
- tight integration with [`pandas`](https://github.com/pydata/pandas)
- pip installable

### Getting Started
#### Dependencies
I realize that these are not fun to install. My best luck has always been using `brew` if you're on a Mac
or just using [the binaries](http://www.lfd.uci.edu/~gohlke/pythonlibs/) if you're on Windows. If you're using Linux then this should be relatively
painless. You should be able to `apt-get` or `yum` all of these.
- `matplotlib`
- `pandas`
- `numpy`
- `scipy`
- `statsmodels`
- `patsy`

#### Installation
Ok the hard part is over. Installing `ggplot` is really easy. Just use `pip`! An item on the TODO
is to add the matplotlibrc files to the pip installable (let me know if you'd like to help!).

    # matplotlibrc from Huy Nguyen (http://www.huyng.com/posts/sane-color-scheme-for-matplotlib/)
    $ curl -O https://raw.github.com/yhat/ggplot/master/matplotlibrcs/matplotlibrc-osx.zip
    $ unzip matplotlibrc-osx.zip -d ~/
    # install ggplot using pip
    $ pip install ggplot

NOTE: You might want to install matplotlibrc files for other platforms (e.g., Windows).
See `matplotlibrcs`.

#### Loading `ggplot`

    # run an IPython shell (or don't)
    $ ipython
    In [1]: from ggplot import *
That's it! You're ready to go!

### Examples
```
meat_lng = pd.melt(meat[['date', 'beef', 'pork', 'broilers']], id_vars='date')
ggplot(aes(x='date', y='value', colour='variable'), data=meat_lng) + \
    geom_point() + \
    stat_smooth(color='red')
```
<img src="public/img/ggplot_meat.png">

####`geom_point`
```
from ggplot import *
ggplot(diamonds, aes('carat', 'price')) + \
    geom_point(alpha=1/20.) + \
    ylim(0, 20000)
```
<img src="public/img/diamonds_geom_point_alpha.png">

####`geom_hist`
```
p = ggplot(aes(x='carat'), data=diamonds)
p + geom_hist() + ggtitle("Histogram of Diamond Carats") + labs("Carats", "Freq") 
```
<img src="public/img/diamonds_carat_hist.png">

####`geom_density`
```
ggplot(diamonds, aes(x='price', color='cut')) + \
    geom_density()
```
<img src="public/img/geom_density_example.png">

```
meat_lng = pd.melt(meat[['date', 'beef', 'broilers', 'pork']], id_vars=['date'])
p = ggplot(aes(x='value', colour='variable', fill=True, alpha=0.3), data=meat_lng)
p + geom_density()
```
<img src="public/img/density_with_fill.png">

####`geom_bar`
```
p = ggplot(mtcars, aes('factor(cyl)'))
p + geom_bar()
```
<img src="public/img/mtcars_geom_bar_cyl.png">


### TODO
The list is long, but distinguished.[TODO](https://github.com/yhat/ggplot/blob/master/TODO.md)
